Ask for a “what is missing” section before the research starts.
OpenAI Academy recommends surfacing unknowns, disputed areas, and data limitations.
This is not an apology at the end; it is part of the research product.
Unknowns should be specific.
More research is needed” says nothing.
No current regional churn data was found,” “the two surveys use different age bands,” or “pricing is available only for enterprise plans” tells the decision-maker exactly where confidence is limited.
Define stop conditions for material gaps.
If a key primary source is inaccessible, two authoritative records conflict, or the requested timeframe has no usable data, the researcher should return the blocker and the smallest decision needed to continue, rather than inventing a smooth substitute.
Keep one logical boundary clear: absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
A search that finds no public incidents may mean there were none, but it may also mean reporting is incomplete, terminology differs, or the relevant records are private.
Attach confidence to the recommendation and name what would change it.
Weak signals, new filings, revised data, or a pending policy decision may deserve a monitoring list rather than a definitive conclusion.
This turns uncertainty into an actionable watch plan.
The common failure is hiding gaps to make the report feel complete.
That increases rhetorical confidence while reducing decision quality.
A visible limit is safer and more useful than a silent assumption.
First, require a specific account of unknowns, disputes, and data limits.
Second, use stop conditions when missing evidence could change the recommendation.
Third, state confidence and the evidence that would change it.